#summary Documentation of the installation of research-esa.

==Java sources==
The project is provided as Java source files that can be downloaded from the project SVN.

==External libraries==

The implementation is based on the following external libaries:

  * [http://ressim.berlios.de/ Matrix Toolkits for Java (MTJ)]
  * [http://snowball.tartarus.org/ Snowball Stemmer]
  * [http://ir.dcs.gla.ac.uk/terrier/ Terrier] (Version 3)
  * [http://commons.apache.org/cli/ Apache Commons CLI]
  * [http://commons.apache.org/collections/ Apache Commons Collections]
  * [http://commons.apache.org/configuration/ Apache Commons Configuration]
  * [http://commons.apache.org/lang/ Apache Commons Lang]
  * [http://commons.apache.org/logging/ Apache Commons Logging]
  * [http://logging.apache.org/log4j/1.2/index.html Apache log4j]
  * [http://trove4j.sourceforge.net/ GNU Trove]
  * [http://www.springsource.org/ Spring Framework] (Version 3)

For access to the Wikipedia database a JDBC driver is needed. In most cases this will be the Java MySQL connector.

Research-esa is also based on the library _ir_framework_4.0.jar_, which is included in the _/lib_ directory. Please refer to the [http://www.aifb.uni-karlsruhe.de/WBS/pso/ir_framework-4.0/ API of ir_framework-4.0] for more information.

==Maven==
Introduced in version 2.0, [http://maven.apache.org/ Maven] can be used to organize dependencies. The project configuration file _pom.xml_ is included in the project sources.

==Running the demo==
After compiling the sources the demo can be started as described in the [Tutorial].

==Problems==
Several known problems are listed on our [Troubleshooting] page.